=head1 CLAN Roadmap

=head1 Version

0.1.0

=head1 Author

Shlomi Fish ( L<https://www.shlomifish.org/> )

=head1 Introduction

This document is a roadmap for the development of the CLAN framework and
illustrates how it can be achieved step by step. (good knowledge of the
whitepaper and spec is assumed).

I hope and believe that we will not require to through away all the code
at a certain point. However, even if we do, I don't think the code we write
will be large scope enough to waste sentiments on not re-writing it.

=head1 Roadmap of the Code

=head2 Version 0.2.0

A C<Linux::ModuleMaker> Perl module that can build a Perl module from a simple
bootstrap with only the bare essentials.

Can compile an autoconfisicated source package, as well as an SRPM, debian
source package, etc.

Also possible would be to build and install the module in one step.

=head2 Version 0.4.0

Dependencies, and installing more modules from a local tree.

=head2 Version 0.6.0

Sources and installing modules from remote.

=head2 Version 0.8.0

Installing and configuring the "kernel" package.

=head2 Version 0.10.0

Installing and configuring an "all-in-one" packages that contain a kernel
and/or several modules

=head2 Version 0.12.0

Upgrading kernels, integration with LILO, GRUB and loadlin, multiple kernel
configurations.

=head2 Version 0.14.0

Inheritable kernel configurations.

=head1 Notes

This does not include putting all the packages online, or setting up a
system for maintaining them.

=head1 Thanks

None yet.






